SolarLint: 

In version 4.13.0, SonarLint for VS Code was renamed SonarQube for VS Code

SonarLint v3.5.4 and earlier allows bindings either at the workspace level, or at each workspace folder

SonarLint for VSCode v3.6 and above has the option to enable/disable receive notifications when starting a new connection

Directement dans GitHub, vous pouvez savoir pourquoi vous avez un problème, où il est situé et comment il circule dans votre code. 

https://youtu.be/6zvBuZr8CeI

SonarQube for IntelliJ brings real-time code verification, quick-fix guidance, and security detection across 40+ languages, helping you catch issues before you commit.
What is SonarQube for IDE?
SonarQube for IDE is a free developer companion brought to you by Sonar that brings real-time static analysis, quick-fix guidance, and security issue detection directly into your coding editor. It surfaces issues as you code, explains why they matter, and suggests clear next steps — so you can improve quality at the source without breaking your flow. The complete list of supported languages, frameworks, and IaC platforms is available on the Rules and languages page.
Your code is checked against an extensive set of rules that cover many attributes of code, such as maintainability, reliability, and security issues. It’s possible to analyze more rules, assign issues, share quality profiles, and more, with your team when running in connected mode with SonarQube (Server, Cloud) or SonarQube Community Build. See the Connected mode page for more details.
Sonar’s IDE extensions are available for IntelliJ (and other JetBrains IDEs), Visual Studio, VS Code, and Eclipse, and can be installed directly from your IDE’s plugin marketplace. SonarQube for IDE leverages over 5,000 language-specific rules.
Achieving high quality code
SonarQube sets high standards for all code — ensuring software is secure, reliable, and maintainable. This applies across all code types: source code, test code, infrastructure as code, glue code, scripts, and AI-generated code.
All new code, whether written by a developer or generated by an AI agent, should meet the same quality and security standards. SonarQube for IDE achieves this by providing automated code verification that surfaces bugs, vulnerabilities, and maintainability issues in real time, before code is merged or released. This helps teams maintain consistent standards across the entire codebase — and is the foundation for high-performance software engineering.
SonarQube (Server, Cloud) and SonarQube Community Build come with a built-in quality profile designed for each supported language, called the Sonar way profile. The Sonar way activates a set of rules applicable to most projects and is a starting point for implementing good practices in your organization.
See SonarQube Server Quality standards administration
See SonarQube Cloud Setting your quality standards
See SonarQube Community Build Quality standards administation
The SonarQube solution
SonarQube is designed to help you achieve a state of high quality, verified code at every stage of development. By linking SonarQube for IDE with SonarQube (Server, Cloud) and SonarQube Community Build, automated code analysis runs continuously across the development lifecycle; we call this the SonarQube solution. Your project settings, new code definitions, and quality profiles managed in SonarQube (Server, Cloud) or SonarQube Community Build are applied locally to an analysis in the IDE.
SonarQube for IDE brings automated code verification directly into your development environment, surfacing issues as you write — whether authored by a developer or generated by an AI tool — so problems are caught before code is even committed.
Then, SonarQube (Server, Cloud) delivers powerful static analysis by reviewing each pull request before it’s merged. This adds an essential verification layer, ensuring code quality and preventing issues from entering your codebase. See the pull request pages in the server documentation for more details:
Pull request analysis in SonarQube Server
Pull request analysis in SonarQube Cloud
Finally, SonarQube (Server, Cloud) and SonarQube Community Build integrate into your CI/CD pipeline, analyzing code on every build. Using quality profiles and quality gates, they automatically block code with issues from reaching production — ensuring only secure, reliable, and maintainable code makes it through.
The SonarQube solution embodies a clear methodology: Guide your AI tools and developers with the right standards, verify every line of code automatically, and solve issues at the source before they compound. Focusing on new code during development ensures that all code released for production will be incrementally improved over time.
Connected Mode
Connected mode joins SonarQube for IDE with SonarQube (Server, Cloud) or SonarQube Community Build to deliver the full Sonar solution. SonarQube for IDE and SonarQube Server 2025.1+, SonarQube Cloud, or SonarQube Community Build analyses help to ensure that only high-quality code makes it into your project.
Be sure to check out all of the benefits when using Connected mode.
Getting started
Now that you’ve heard about how SonarQube for IDE can help you verify and ship secure, reliable code, you are ready to try it out for yourself. After installing SonarQube for IntelliJ in your IDE from the Marketplace, open a project using a supported language and let it run an analysis.
See the Getting started, Rules and languages, and Running an analysis pages for more information.
The Investigating issues page will show you how to find issues in the IDE, and the Fixing issues page explains how to start addressing issues in your code as you write.
Learn more
Check out the entire suite of Sonar products: SonarQube Server, SonarQube Cloud, and SonarQube for IDE.
Then, have a look at the types of issues that SonarQube for IDE detects when combined with SonarQube Server and SonarQube Cloud, and browse a full list of Sonar rules available for static code analysis on the rules page of your SonarQube Server instance or in your SonarQube Cloud organization.
Managing issues in SonarQube Server
Managing code issues in SonarQube Cloud
Staying connected
Use the following links to follow SonarQube for IntelliJ behind the scenes:
Source code
Issue tracker Jira
And if you need help, visit our online community to search for answers and reach out with questions!















Owasp top 10:

The most current released version is the 2025 
We are currently developing release version 5.0

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OWASP/ASVS/v5.0.0/5.0/OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_5.0.0_en.pdf

Introduction
OWASP’s mission is to help the world improve the security of its software. One of the best ways OWASP can do that is to help Open Source developers improve the software they are producing that everyone else relies on. As such, the following lists of automated vulnerability detection tools that are free for open source projects have been gathered together here to raise awareness of their availability.
We would encourage open source projects to use the following types of tools to improve the security and quality of their code:
Static Application Security Testing (SAST) Tools
Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) Tools
(Primarily for web apps)
Interactive Application Security Testing (IAST) Tools - (Primarily for web apps and web APIs)
Keeping Open Source libraries up-to-date (to avoid Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities (OWASP Top 10-2017 A9))
Static Code Quality Tools
Automatic Remediation Tools
Disclaimer: OWASP does not endorse any of the Vendors or Scanning Tools by listing them below. They are simply listed if we believe they are free for use by open source projects. We have made every effort to provide this information as accurately as possible. If you are the vendor of a free for open source tool and think this information is incomplete or incorrect, please send an e-mail to dave.wichers (at) owasp.org and we will make every effort to correct this information.
Free for Open Source Tools
Tools that are free for open source projects in each of the above categories are listed below.
SAST Tools
OWASP already maintains a page of known SAST tools: Source Code Analysis Tools, which includes a list of those that are “Open Source or Free Tools Of This Type”. Any such tools could certainly be used. One such cloud service is:
GitHub code scanning - A free for open source static analysis service that uses GitHub Actions and CodeQL to scan public repositories on GitHub. Supports C/C++, C#, Ruby (beta), Java, JavaScript/TypeScript, Python, and Go (see here for more information)
If you do not want to use GitHub Actions, you may use the CodeQL CLI; however, be sure to read the license terms in full.
By default, CodeQL only looks for high fidelity security related results (well known true positives), so your results may look different from LGTM.
To achieve the same or similar results provided by LGTM, try enabling the security-and-quality query suite within the CodeQL query pack.
In addition, we are aware of the following commercial SAST tools that are free for Open Source projects:
Contrast CodeSec - Scan & Serverless - Web App and API code scanners via command line or through GitHub actions. CodeSec - Scan supports Java, JavaScript and .NET, while CodeSec - Serverless supports AWS Lambda Functions (Java + Python). These tools are actually free for all projects, not just open source.
Coverity Scan Static Analysis - Can be lashed into Travis-CI so it’s done automatically with online resources. Supports over a dozen programming languages.
HCL AppScan CodeSweep - This is a SAST community edition version of HCL AppScan. Free for everyone to use. The tool currently supports Python, Ruby, JS (Vue, Node, Angular, JQuery, React, etc), PHP, Perl, Go, TypeScript & more, with new languages being added frequently.
CodeSweep - VS Code Plugin - Scans files upon saving them. The results show the location of a finding, type, and remediation advice. Auto-fix available with free trial or subscription.
CodeSweep - JetBrains Plugin - Scans files upon saving them. The results show the location of a finding, type, and remediation advice. Auto-fix available with free trial or subscription.
CodeSweep - GitHub Action - Scan the new code on a push/pull request using a GitHub action. Findings are highlighted in the Files Changed view and details about the issue and mitigation steps can be found in the Actions page. Unrestricted usage allowed with a free trial account.
Aikido - Combines open source software with custom rules & features into a single dashboard with all your security findings. Includes both SAST and Library Analysis tools. Free for small teams and open-source-projects.
Arnica - Scans all source code repositories for code risks (SAST, SCA, IaC, license violations, and low 3rd party reputation) and hardcoded secrets. The platform comes with a freemium plan for unlimited time and users count. The pipelineless security approach is the value the company charges for, so the visibility remains always free.
Corgea - An AI-native SAST scanner that helps developers find and fix insecure code. It detects business logic flaws, broken authentication, API vulnerabilities and more with minimal false positives. Corgea automatically generates security fixes for developers to review and approve. Integrates with GitHub, GitLab, Azure DevOps, IDEs and CLI. Free to use.
KICS by Checkmarx - Detects security vulnerabilities, compliance issues, and infrastructure misconfigurations early in the development cycle of your infrastructure-as-code.
Kusari - Kusari Inspector seamlessly integrates software supply chain security analysis into your pull requests. This checks for bad dependencies, licenses, quality data. Free for individual use.
Xygeni - Provides Advanced SAST with real-time malware detection and AI-powered AutoFix. It helps developers find and fix vulnerabilities with minimal friction. Free for open source projects.
DAST Tools
If your project has a web application component, we recommend running automated scans against it to look for vulnerabilities. OWASP maintains a page of known DAST Tools, and the License column on this page indicates which of those tools have free capabilities. Our primary recommendation is to use one of these:
ZAP by Checkmarx - A full featured free and open source DAST tool that includes both automated scanning for vulnerabilities and tools to assist expert manual web app pen testing.
OWASP PurpleTeam - A security regression testing SaaS and CLI, perfect for inserting into your build pipelines. You don’t need to write any tests yourself. PurpleTeam is smart enough to know how to test, you just need to provide a Job file which tells PurpleTeam what you want tested. It has two main environments local and cloud.
local is OWASP - set everything up yourself in your own environment.
cloud is a proprietary offering with everything hosted for you in the cloud. You just need to configure and run the CLI.
 PurpleTeam is pluggable, if it doesn’t have a tester that you need you can add your own. One of the testers (the web application tester) uses ZAP under the hood.
Akto - Akto is an open-source and commercial DAST and API Security tool that includes both automated API Discovery and scanning of vulnerabilities in CI/CD with the highest test coverage.
Arachni - Arachni is a commercially supported scanner, but its free for most use cases, including scanning open source projects.
Barrion - Barrion is a developer-focused platform that supports a wide range of free security checks for websites and web apps. Each failed check includes a detailed explanation and remediation guidance.
CI Fuzz CLI - An open source command line tool for creating fuzz tests. The tool is tightly integrated with various build systems, enabling developers to create fuzz tests as easily as unit tests.
Code Intelligence App - This application security testing platform enables CI/CD-integrated fuzz testing at each pull request. It helps developers to measure and maximize code coverage and to prioritize all findings based on severity. All of this information is then aggregated in a usable dashboard. The testing platform integrates directly into popular ticketing systems and issue trackers.
StackHawk - StackHawk is a commercially supported DAST tool built on ZAP and optimized to run in CI/CD (almost every CI supported) to test web applications during development and in CI/CD. The StackHawk platform allows you to manage findings over time in different environments. StackHawk is free for Open Source projects and free to use on a single application.
VWT Digital’s sec-helpers - Collection of dynamic security related helpers. Sec-helpers is a bundle of useful tests and validators to ensure the security of a given domain.
WuppieFuzz is a coverage-guided REST API fuzzer developed on top of LibAFL, targeting a wide audience of end-users, with a strong focus on ease-of-use, explainability of the discovered flaws and modularity. WuppieFuzz supports all three settings of testing (black box, grey box and white box).
Xygeni DAST - Simulates real-world attacks against web applications and APIs to identify vulnerabilities in running environments. It features risk-aware prioritization and clear remediation paths. Free for open source projects.
We are not aware of any other commercial grade tools that offer their full featured DAST product free for open source projects.
IAST Tools
IAST tools are typically geared to analyze Web Applications and Web APIs, but that is vendor specific. There may be IAST products that can perform good security analysis on non-web applications as well.
We are aware of only one IAST Tool that is free after registration at this time:
Contrast Community Edition (CE) - Fully featured version for 1 app and up to 5 users (some Enterprise features disabled). Contrast CE supports Java and .NET only.
API Web Scanners
For tools which are API specific please refer to the OWASP community API Security Tools page.
Open Source Software (OSS) Security Tools
OSS refers to the open source libraries or components that application developers leverage to quickly develop new applications and add features to existing apps. Gartner refers to the analysis of the security of these components as software composition analysis (SCA). So OSS Analysis and SCA are the same thing.
OWASP recommends that all software projects generally try to keep the libraries they use as up-to-date as possible to reduce the likelihood of Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities (OWASP Top 10-2017 A9). There are two recommended approaches for this:
Keeping Your Libraries Updated
Using the latest version of each library is recommended because security issues are frequently fixed ‘silently’ by the component maintainer. By silently, we mean without publishing a CVE for the security fix.
Maven Versions plugin
For Maven projects, can be used to generate a report of all dependencies used and when upgrades are available for them. Either a direct report, or part of the overall project documentation using: mvn site.
Dependabot
A GitHub only service that creates pull requests to keep your dependencies up-to-date. It automatically generates a pull request for each dependency you can upgrade, which you can then ignore, or accept, as you like. It supports tons of languages.
Recommended for all open source projects maintained on GitHub!
Detecting Known Vulnerable Components
As an alternative, or in addition to, trying to keep all your components up-to-date, a project can specifically monitor whether any of the components they use have known vulnerable components.
Free tools of this type:
OWASP has its own free open source tools:
OWASP Dependency Check
OWASP Dependency Track
GitHub: Security alerts for vulnerable dependencies
A native GitHub feature that reports known vulnerable dependencies in your GitHub projects. Supports: Java, .NET, JavaScript, Ruby, and Python. Your GitHub projects are automatically signed up for this service.
Bytesafe Dependency Firewall: Free for Open Source projects
Detects known vulnerabilities in source code dependencies,
Blocks dependencies based on policies such as vulnerabilities, type of license, release dates and more
Debricked: free for open source projects or smaller teams.
Identifies, fixes and prevents known vulnerabilities. Read more at https://debricked.com
Create a free account
retire.js: free open source tool for finding javascript libraries with known vulnerabilities. Originally a command line tool, and there are plugins for browsers and scanners.
Commercial tools of this type that are free for open source:
Aikido - Combines open source software with custom rules & features into a single dashboard with all your security findings. Includes both Library Analysis and SAST tools. Free for small teams and open-source projects.
Bytesafe - Bytesafe Dependency Firewall manages source code dependencies securely
Detects Known Vulnerabilities in dependencies
Identifies OSS licenses used in dependencies and prevents use of problematic licenses.
Provides SCA capabilities such as SBOM creation
Free for Open Source Projects and individual users
Contrast Community Edition (CE) (mentioned earlier) also has both Known Vulnerable Component detection and Available Updates reporting for OSS. CE supports Java and .NET only.
Debricked - over 90% true positive rate in supported languages
Identifies, fixes and prevents known vulnerabilities through automation without the need to give access to your source code. Read more at https://debricked.com
Allows for vulnerability management and license compliance in the same tool
Features automated fix pull request to automatically fix vulnerabilities (currently only for javascript)
Features one of the most complete vulnerability databases
GitHub version: https://github.com/apps/debricked/
Corgea - AI-powered SAST scanner that finds and fixes security issues
Finds business logic flaws, broken auth, API security issues and more
Supports Python, Go, Javascript, Typescript, Ruby, C#, C, C++, Java, PHP, Kotlin and more.
Integrates with IDE, CLI, CI/CD
Free tier available for open source projects
OX Security - Stop Attacks Across Your Software Supply Chain
Complete Software Supply Chain Security Solution, based on Pipeline Bill Of Materials
Manage your findings from a single location
Full visibility and end to end traceability over your software pipeline security from cloud to code.
Manage your findings, orchestrate DevSecOps activities, prevent risks and maintain software pipeline integrity
Automatically block risks introduced into the pipeline and ensure the integrity of each workload
Close Gaps in Security Tooling & Coverage
Avoid known security risks like Log4j and Codecov.
Prevent new attack types based on proprietary research and threat intel.
Improve CI/CD Security & Processes
Ensure the security and integrity of all cloud artifacts
Undertake security gap analysis and identify any blind spots.
Free tier for Open-Source projects
SOOS - Free Community Edition - Our no-hassle enrollment process for open source projects brings practical supply chain security to the masses.
Use with any public GitHub repository
C++, Node, Ruby, Python, Java, .Net, and more
Integrates with GitHub
Connect to Jira, Azure DevOps, or GitHub Issues
Robust license policies
Rich vulnerability dashboard
SBOM generation (SPDX/CycloneDX)
Snyk - Supports Node.js, Ruby, Java, Python, Scala, Golang, .NET, PHP - Latest list here: https://docs.snyk.io/products/snyk-open-source/language-and-package-manager-support
A Commercial tool that identifies vulnerable components and integrates with numerous CI/CD pipelines. Free for open source: https://snyk.io/plans
If you don’t want to grant Snyk write access to your repo (see it can auto-create pull requests) you can use the Command Line Interface (CLI) instead. See: https://snyk.io/docs/using-snyk. If you do this and want it to be free, you have to configure Snyk so it knows it’s open source: https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-us/articles/360000910597-How-can-I-set-a-Snyk-CLI-project-as-open-source
Another benefit of using the Snyk CLI is that it won’t auto create Pull requests for you (which makes these ‘issues’ more public than you might prefer)
They also provide detailed information and remediation guidance for known vulnerabilities here: https://snyk.io/vuln
Software Health Indicator by YourSky.blue
The real time indicator that promotes supply chain transparency Free for FOSS projects: https://software-health-indicator.com/order/
Veracode SCA (formerly SourceClear). Supports: Java, Ruby, JavaScript, Python, Objective C, GO, PHP
Component vulnerability data (for publicly known vulns) free to search: https://sca.analysiscenter.veracode.com/vulnerability-database/search#_
Spectra Assure Community - A free platform by ReversingLabs for identifying malware, tampering, supply chain risks in open-source packages, and developer tools. Provides SBOM exports and access to the MCP Server Registry without requiring registration.
Vulert - Vulert’s Software Composition Analysis (SCA) keeps an eye on the open source dependencies for new risks (vulnerabilities), recommends fixes, and ensures license compliance – all without requiring installation or access to the codebase. Supports Node.js, Ruby, Java, Python, Scala, Golang, .Net, PHP, C/C++ and many more.
At Vulert Playground, one can test an app’s security without any sign-ups. Visit Vulert Playground
Free for open source and small companies.
Mend (formerly WhiteSource) - Supports 200+ programming languages.
GitHub version: https://github.com/apps/mend-for-github-com
Arnica - Provides full visibility for code risks (SAST, SCA, IaC, license violations, and low 3rd party reputation) and hardcoded secrets across all source code repositories.
The platform comes with a freemium plan for unlimited time and users count.The pipelineless security approach is the value the company charges for, so the visibility remains always free.
SBOMs are generated and automatically updated across all source code repositories.
Supported languages: .Net, C, C++, L, Go, Java, JavaScript (including various frameworks), PHP, Python, Ruby, Rust, Scala, Swift.
Simplifies the risk prioritization by automatically classifying the business important of each product and correlating the potential exploitability with open source threat feeds (e.g. EPSS).
Xygeni - A comprehensive AI-powered AppSec and Software Supply Chain Security platform. Xygeni provides an integrated suite of tools to detect, prioritize, and remediate risks end-to-end across the SDLC. Free for open source projects.
Advanced SAST: Combines static analysis with intelligent malware detection and AI AutoFix for secure remediation directly in pull requests.
SCA & Malware Defense: Identifies vulnerable dependencies and malicious code in real-time, featuring reachability analysis and automated dependency upgrades.
Secrets Security: Scans and blocks the publication of sensitive information like API keys and tokens in real-time across the entire Git history.
IaC & CI/CD Security: Protects infrastructure templates and pipelines from misconfigurations and supply chain risks, enforcing security policies and guardrails.
DAST-Driven ASPM: Ingests findings from scanners like ZAP or Acunetix to provide runtime-aware prioritization, filtering vulnerabilities by real-world exposure and exploitability.
Code Quality tools
Quality has a significant correlation to security. As such, we recommend open source projects also consider using good code quality tools. A few that we are aware of are:
SpotBugs - Open source code quality tool for Java
This is the active fork for FindBugs, so if you use Findbugs, you should switch to this.
SpotBugs users should add the FindSecBugs plugin to their SpotBugs setup, as it significantly improves on the very basic security checking native to SpotBugs.
SonarQube
This is a commercially supported, very popular, free (and commercial) code quality tool. It includes most if not all the FindSecBugs security rules plus lots more for quality, including a free, internet online CI setup to run it against your open source projects. SonarQube supports numerous languages: https://www.sonarqube.org/features/multi-languages/
DeepScan - Supports JavaScript, TypeScript
DeepScan is a static code analysis tool and hosted service for inspecting JavaScript code. It checks possible run-time errors and poor code quality using data-flow analysis and provides results for the project’s code quality.
DeepScan is free for open source projects on GitHub.
MegaLinter - Multi-language Code Quality and Security checker
MegaLinter is an Open-Source tool that analyzes the consistency of your code, IAC, configuration, and scripts in your repository sources, to ensure all your projects repositories are clean and formatted whatever IDE/toolbox is used by their developers
More than 100 linters supporting 52 languages, 24 formats, 21 tooling formats, spelling and security
Ready to use out of the box, compliant with GitHub Actions, GitLab CI, Azure Pipelines, Jenkins, Concourse, Drone CI, or even locally with mega-linter-runner
Highly configurable, without registration
100% Open-Source and free for all uses, powered and backed by by OX Security
Defense Tools
AWS Firewall Factory - An open source solution that makes it easy to deploy, update, and provision OWASP TOP 10 compliant web application firewalls (WAFs) at scale while centrally managing them with AWS Firewall Manager. This solution streamlines security management by enabling customisation of WAF configurations and adherence to AWS best practices.
DSSRF - dssrf Defend Against SSRF attacks by providing huge of utils for validation, you integrate it with your web client before making request you validate the url for eliminating SSRF attacks.
Security Tools Built into DevOps/CI Environments
GitLab - is building security into their platform and it is quickly evolving as described here.
They are leveraging the best free open source tools they can find and building them into the GitLab CI pipeline to make it easy to enable them. This includes many categories of security tools:
SAST
DAST
Code Quality
Dependency Analysis
Container Scanning
The specific tools enabled are language specific.
These security features are free for public open source projects on GitLab.com
Faraday - Open Source Vulnerability Manager
Security has two difficult tasks: designing smart ways of getting new information, and keeping track of findings to improve remediation efforts. With Faraday, you may focus on discovering vulnerabilities while we help you with the rest. Just use it in your terminal and get your work organized on the run. Faraday was made to let you take advantage of the available tools in the community in a truly multiuser way.
Community Version: public open source projects on GitHub
Xygeni CI/CD & Build Security - A unified platform to secure the entire software supply chain by protecting pipelines and build processes.
CI/CD Security: Continuously scans pipeline executions to block supply chain attacks, detects misconfigurations in build scripts and CI/CD tools, and enforces least privilege policies.
Build Security & Integrity: Ensures artifact integrity through real-time verification and attestation (SLSA, in-toto), blocking tampered artifacts before deployment without slowing down development.
Anomaly Detection: Monitors CI/CD infrastructure in real-time to detect and block suspicious actions or precursors to an attack.
Free for Open Source: Comprehensive security features are available at no cost for public open source projects.
Secrets Detection Tools
Secrets detection is often confused with SAST because both scan through static source code. Secrets detection scan the default branch before deployment but can also scan through every single commit of the git history, covering every branch, even development or test ones.
2MS by Checkmarx
Too many secrets (2MS) is designed to protect secret information in files, chats, and git repositories.
GitGuardian
A commercial tool that scans your Git repositories’ history and monitors new contributions in real-time for secrets. It examines secret exposure trends over time and monitors team performance. Free for open source repositories hosted under your GitHub Organization
Container Scanning ggshield is a command-line interface application to help developers detect and prevent vulnerabilities like hard coded secrets (like API keys, certificates, database connection URLs) before pushing their code to shared repositories. ggshield is integrated with GitGuardian Internal Monitoring, the automated secrets detection and remediation platform. Recently, ggshield has also integrated the capability of scanning Terraform files for infrastructure-as-code for security misconfigurations (public beta).
Gitleaks - Gitleaks is a fast, light-weight, portable, and open-source secret scanner for git repositories, files, and directories
All code is open-source (gitleaks) or source-available (Gitleaks-Action).
Over 140 secret types with new types being added all the time
SAP/Credential Digger - Open Source
A GitHub scanning tool that identifies hardcoded credentials (Passwords, API Keys, Secret Keys, Tokens, personal information, etc.), filtering the false positive data through machine learning models.
TruffleHog - Open Source (supported by an enterprise product: Truffle Security)
Find credentials in repositories (git, GitHub, GitLab), filesystem, S3 buckets, GCS buckets, syslog, CircleCI, Docket Images
Eliminates false positives using 700+ credential detectors that support active verification against their respective APIs
Available as a GitHub Action
Yelp/detect-secrets - Open Source
detect-secrets is an aptly named module for detecting secrets within a code base. Unlike other similar packages that solely focus on finding secrets, this package is designed with the enterprise client in mind: providing a backwards compatible means to prevent new secrets from entering the code base.
Arnica - provides full visibility for code risks (SAST, SCA, IaC, license violations, and low 3rd party reputation) and hardcoded secrets across all source code repositories.
The platform comes with a freemium plan for unlimited time and users count.The pipelineless security approach is the value the company charges for, so the visibility remains always free.
Hardcoded secrets validation and custom regex configuration are built in.
Secrets mitigation is provided with a developer experience focus.
Kingfisher - Open Source (Apache 2.0)
Finds secrets across filesystems, full Git histories, GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, Gitea, Azure DevOps, S3 buckets, Docker images, Jira, Confluence, Slack, and more
Built in Rust, it combines live credential validation, source code parsing, and the SIMD-accelerated Vectorscan regex engine for unmatched performance and accuracy
Ships with hundreds of built-in rules that detect and validate secrets in real time, and can be extended with custom rules
Supports building a baseline file, to detect and prevent new secrets from being added to a codebase
Xygeni Secrets - Scans repositories for hardcoded secrets, credentials, and configuration flaws. It provides deep visibility into secret exposure across the entire git history. Free for open source projects.
Privacy Engineering Tools
xCOMPASS - a simple tool that allows developers to determine their privacy engineering requirements early in the product development lifecycle. xCOMPASS has also been listed by NIST in their Privacy Engineering Program Collaboration Space as one of four Risk Assessment Tools and CISA as one of the open-source tools that promote cybersecurity best practices.
Intel and Repository Analysis Tools
Gitxray - Gitxray (short for Git X-Ray) is an opensource tool designed for use on GitHub repositories. It leverages public GitHub REST APIs to gather information on Contributors and Repositories that would otherwise be very time-consuming to obtain manually. It can identify fake or shared contributor accounts, collect sensitive information in contributor profiles by looking in unconventional places (e.g. by parsing GPG key blobs), flag dangerous repository activity, and a lot more available in its documentation.
Automatic Remediation Tools
Mobb - Mobb is an automatic code fixer for security issues. It runs manually or as part of a pipeline, digests your SAST reports, and generates ready-to-be-merged pull requests that fix your issues.
Corgea - Corgea connects to Semgrep, Snyk, CodeQL, Checkmarx and Fortify to remove false positives and issue fixes for security vulnerabilities. It supports Python, Go, Javascript, Typescript, Ruby, C#, C, C++, Java, PHP, and Kotlin. It can be run manually or as part of CI/CD pipelines. Free to use.
Xygeni - An AI-powered platform that automates the detection and remediation of vulnerabilities, malware, and secrets across the SDLC. Free for open source projects.
AI AutoFix: Provides secure, context-aware fixes for SAST and SCA findings directly in IDEs and pull requests, enabling instant remediation.
Xygeni Bot: Automatically runs remediation tasks on-demand or daily, creating smart, ready-to-merge Pull Requests to close the loop between detection and fix.
Remediation Risk Analysis: Evaluates the potential impact of updates and fixes to prevent breaking changes before applying changes to dependencies or code.
Automated Guardrails: Implements policy-driven actions and playbooks to automatically block misconfigurations and remediate security leaks in real-time.
Post-Quantum Cryptography Tools
With the rise of quantum computing, classical cryptographic algorithms like RSA are no longer adequate to protect our data. Hence, organizations must update their computing assets that use any classical cryptographic algorithms to then use the new post-quantum cryptography (PQC) algorithms (i.e., PQC migration).
CARAF - Crypto Agility Risk Assessment Framework (CARAF) helps organizations evaluate the risks of their assets in the context of post-quantum cryptography (PQC) migration. - Comcast Cyber Security & Privacy Research
PQBench - PQBench offers a curated collection of cryptographic use cases, each mapped to relevant evaluation metrics tailored for Post-Quantum Cryptography (PQC). - Comcast Cyber Security & Privacy Research
Please let us know if you are aware of any other high quality application security tools that are free for open source (or simply add them to this page). We are particularly interested in identifying and listing commercial tools that are free for open source, as they tend to be better and easier to use than open source (free) tools. If you are aware of any missing from this list, please add them, or let us know (dave.wichers (at) owasp.org) and we’ll confirm they are free, and add them for you. Please encourage your favorite commercial tool vendor to make their tool free for open source projects as well!!
Finally, please forward this page to the open source projects you rely on and encourage them to use these free tools!



Flake8:
intégrer via Github Actions 
vérifier automatiquement la qualité du code python a chaque push ou a chaque requête
Il est très important d'installer Flake8 sur la version correcte de Python pour vos besoins. Si vous voulez que Flake8 analyse correctement une nouvelle langue fonctionnalités en Python 3.5 (par exemple), vous devez l'installer sur 3.5 pour Flake8 pour comprendre ces caractéristiques. À bien des égards, Flake8 est lié à la version de Python sur laquelle il fonctionne.
We recommend using the latest version of Python. Flask supports Python 3.9 and newer.
<Werkzeug implements WSGI, the standard Python interface between applications and servers.
Jinja is a template language that renders the pages your application serves.
MarkupSafe comes with Jinja. It escapes untrusted input when rendering templates to avoid injection attacks.
ItsDangerous securely signs data to ensure its integrity. This is used to protect Flask’s session cookie.
Click is a framework for writing command line applications. It provides the flask command and allows adding custom management commands.
Blinker provides support for Signals.
Optional dependencies
These distributions will not be installed automatically. Flask will detect and use them if you install them.
python-dotenv enables support for Environment Variables From dotenv when running flask commands.
Watchdog provides a faster, more efficient reloader for the development server.
greenlet
You may choose to use Async with Gevent with your application. In this case, greenlet>=1.0 is required. When using PyPy, PyPy>=7.3.7 is required.
These are not minimum supported versions, they only indicate the first versions that added necessary features. You should use the latest versions of each.
Virtual environments
Use a virtual environment to manage the dependencies for your project, both in development and in production.
What problem does a virtual environment solve? The more Python projects you have, the more likely it is that you need to work with different versions of Python libraries, or even Python itself. Newer versions of libraries for one project can break compatibility in another project.
Virtual environments are independent groups of Python libraries, one for each project. Packages installed for one project will not affect other projects or the operating system’s packages.
Python comes bundled with the venv module to create virtual environments.
Create an environment
Create a project folder and a .venv folder within:
> mkdir myproject
> cd myproject
> py -3 -m venv .venv

Activate the environment
Before you work on your project, activate the corresponding environment:
> .venv\Scripts\activate

Your shell prompt will change to show the name of the activated environment.
Install Flask
Within the activated environment, use the following command to install Flask:
$ pip install Flask

Flask is now installed. Check out the Quickstart or go to the Documentation Overview.
MySQL 8.4 Reference Manual
Including MySQL NDB Cluster 8.4
Abstract
This is the MySQL Reference Manual. It documents MySQL 8.4 through 8.4.8, as well as NDB Cluster 8.4 through 8.4.8, respectively. It may include documentation of features of MySQL versions that have not yet been released. For information about which versions have been released, see the MySQL 8.4 Release Notes.
MySQL 8.4 features.  This manual describes features that are not included in every edition of MySQL 8.4; such features may not be included in the edition of MySQL 8.4 licensed to you. If you have any questions about the features included in your edition of MySQL 8.4, refer to your MySQL 8.4 license agreement or contact your Oracle sales representative.
For notes detailing the changes in each release, see the MySQL 8.4 Release Notes.
For legal information, including licensing information, see the Preface and Legal Notices.
For help with using MySQL, please visit the MySQL Forums, where you can discuss your issues with other MySQL users.
Document generated on: 2026-03-27 (revision: 84556)

